>> Kadi Kraman: A really integral part
of most mobile notifications is push
notifications, so a push notification,
I mean we all received
them probably too many.
But it's the notification that you get
in your notification bar from your
application is triggered
by the application,
when it's not in the foreground usually.
And this two types of push notifications,
there's remote notifications, so
these are sent from a server.
So a server somewhere knows your
device's push notification and
it sends the push notification
to like Apple or to Firebase and
it gets directed to your device.
Or local notifications which
are scheduled within your app and
sent to the current device only.
Setting up remote push
notifications is quite involved,
I've linked to some documentations
on how to do it, but
basically there's that you
need to set up a server.
You need to register and save the push
token, so it is not easily workshopable,
but we are going to send some local
push notifications to ourselves.
>> Kadi Kraman: To do this, let's install
expo-notifications and expo-device.
>> Kadi Kraman: Now, a concept that
we haven't coded before is asking for
permission to send notifications.
So before we can send
any push notifications,
we need to ask the user if they are
willing to be send notifications to, and
you've probably seen this alert yourself.
>> Kadi Kraman: One thing that's worth
noting is that you can only ask, so
these native alerts that says,
can we send notifications?
Can we track your background activity?
Things like that, or
can we access your phone camera?
You can only ask them as a developer, you
can only ask them once, so once you send
a push like an alert, native alert with
the, can we send you push notifications?
And the user says, no, you can't,
then you can't ask again, the only way for
the user to toggle the setting back to on,
would be to go to the settings.
>> Kadi Kraman: So to ask for permission,
we're going to add a little utility,
and feel free to copy this function,
so we'll copy this to
utils/registerForPushNotificationsAsync-
.ts, so this will be in here.
>> Kadi Kraman: Utils and new file
register for notificationsasync.ts.
>> Kadi Kraman: Love it, and
feel free to copy this [COUGH].
>> Kadi Kraman: All right,
so what does this do?
This is a convenience function and
basically, before you schedule
a notification, you need to check
whether you can actually send it.
So the important part of this entire
function is this line, sorry,
it's actually this line,
to request permission from the user.
And this is the bit that makes the native
prompt actually show up on the user's
device.
>> Kadi Kraman: So what we're doing here,
is we're checking whether we're on
a device because push notifications
don't work on simulators and
didn't work on emulators.
They definitely don't work on simulators,
so I can't use this iOS simulator.
Then we check what the existing
permission status is,
so the status,
do we have all the status listed here?
But it can be granted,
denied, undecided, I think,
let me see if there's actually
permission status, there we go.
Granted, undetermined, and denied, so
undetermined means that we've never asked,
the user has never been asked.
Granted means that they've been asked and
they said yes, and denied means that
they've been asked and they said no.
So if the permission status is denied, and
then you call this request mission Async,
so this is what makes
the permission pop-up show up,
it's actually a no-op,
it doesn't do anything.
Whereas if you do granted it
also doesn't do anything, so
the only time it has any effect is when
the permission status is undetermined.
>> Kadi Kraman: And the reason that
this is actually needed is that on as of
a latest version of Android,
supercilibration and
android work a little bit differently,
they are tied to a channel.
Android users will probably know what
I mean more than I know what I mean,
so there's different channels, so
you can group notifications
from the same app to a channel.
And for the latest version of Android,
you need to set up a channel
before you ask for permissions,
otherwise it doesn't work, so
that's why this code is here.
>> Kadi Kraman: [COUGH]
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so
what we're going to do is
in our counter app here,
we're going to add a button, so
let's go to the counter screen,
so this should be an up counter and index.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
let's render a little button here,
so we want a touchable opacity.
>> Kadi Kraman: We need some text, and
the text should say request permission.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right,
and let's give it some style,
let's do style button.
>> Kadi Kraman: And we'll make the same
black button that we had before,
should have probably saved it, but
we didn't, so we get to create it again.
So background color we'll do a theme
colorBlack, get some padding, and
give it a borderRadius, borderRadius: 6,
and let's do a buttonText.
So this will be used by the text element
here, so style equals styles buttonText.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so
currently we just have a black button, so
we need to make sure that
this text is white, so
we want to do a color of theme,
colorWhite.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
hopefully this shows up,
let's do a fontWeight of bold.
>> Kadi Kraman: A textTransform.
>> Kadi Kraman: Uppercase,
>> Kadi Kraman: And
don't need this fontSize, but
we do want a have a letterSpacing of 1.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely,
actually one thing I wanted to show you,
this came up with someone else, so
fontWeight needs to be a string.
So interestingly, on this iOS
simulator it's fine, but on an Android
phone when we're testing this,
like passing in fontWeight as a number,
actually crashed the app, so
that was quite interesting.
>> Kadi Kraman: So fontWeight: bold,
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay,
now we have our button and
let's do an onpress.
>> Kadi Kraman: So this will be
a const handleRequestPermission,
which will be an arrow function.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
on this TouchableOpacity,
let's give it an activeOpacity as well, so
it's not so highlighted, let's do 0.8 and
onPress will handleRequestPermission.
So in this function,
>> Kadi Kraman: We
want to do const result,
>> Kadi Kraman: And
we want to call this utility
function that we created,
so we want to await
registerForpushNotificationAsync.
So this should be an asyn arrow function,
and let's just console.log what happens.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so I want
a simulator, so I am expecting, yeah,
so I'm getting null here because
we're checking if we're on a device,
if we're not on a device
let's return null.
So I need to use my phone,
let's use this
Android phone, so
we'll do Pixel 7.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so go to the
counter, so now if I request permission,
we're getting this permissions alert, so
this alert is being triggered
by our requestPermissionAsync.
So let's allow, and now,
you can see that this console
log is telling me that my
permission status is granted.
And it is fine to call this
function every time you want to
schedule a push notification,
because we've configured it
in a way that it fails out early,
if we don't need to ask again.
Then again, to be honest, you could even
call requestPermissionAsync loads of
times because it will do nothing if
you already requested permission.
All right, so now we have permission
to give to do push notifications,
let me do the same on my iOS phone,
again so for next we go.
>> Kadi Kraman: And reload, okay,
we're doing push notifications,
so this is iOS when we're
requesting permissions.
So I get the native iOS
push permission prompt,
I'm gonna show you what
happens if I say don't allow.
So I say don't allow and
then now my push thing is denied,
and actually I wanna
change this to if true.
>> Kadi Kraman: Just to show you so
it will always request permission, and
I press this button and
literally nothing happens.
And that's because I've asked the user,
they've said no,
then me as an app I can't ask again.
So, at this point when I've denied,
then as an app developer I can't
ever ask request permissions again.
So the only way as a user you can toggle
this on is using the settings app.
So we go to settings and
notifications, and then you search for
the app that you want to toggle
the notifications for, so
in this case we are developing an Expo Go.
>> Kadi Kraman: And this will be a list
of all the permissions that this app has
asked, so in this case we're only
asked for notification permission, so
we can toggle this on.
You can also toggle things off here,
so we've got a camera permission,
app tracking transparency,
all the good stuff.
So now, if I request permission again,
it will say granted because I've
toggled it on from the settings.